As you saw, it is
important that LLMs can
reason through the steps that
an application must take,
to satisfy a user request.
Unfortunately, complex reasoning
can be challenging for LLMs,
especially for
problems that involve
multiple steps or mathematics.
These problems exist
even in large models
that show good performance
at many other tasks.
Here's one example where an LLM
has difficulty
completing the task.
You're asking the model to solve
a simple multi-step
math problem,
to determine how many
apples a cafeteria
has after using
some to make lunch,
and then buying some more.
Your prompt includes a
similar example problem,
complete with the solution,
to help the model understand
the task through
one-shot inference.
If you like, you can
pause the video here
for a moment and solve
the problem yourself.
After processing the prompt,
the model generates the
completion shown here,
stating that the answer is 27.
This answer is incorrect,
as you found out if
you solve the problem.
The cafeteria actually only
has nine apples remaining.
Researchers have been
exploring ways to improve
the performance of
large language models
on reasoning tasks,
like the one you just saw.
One strategy that has
demonstrated some success is
prompting the model to
think more like a human,
by breaking the problem
down into steps.
What do I mean by thinking
more like a human?
Well, here is the
one-shot example problem
from the prompt on
the previous slide.
The task here is to calculate
how many tennis balls Roger
has after buying some new ones.
One way that a
human might tackle
this problem is as follows.
Begin by determining
the number of
tennis balls Roger
has at the start.
Then note that Roger buys
two cans of tennis balls.
Each can contains three balls,
so he has a total of
six new tennis balls.
Next, add these 6 new
balls to the original 5,
for a total of 11 balls.
Then finish by
stating the answer.
These intermediate
calculations form
the reasoning steps that
a human might take,
and the full sequence
of steps illustrates
the chain of thought that went
into solving the problem.
Asking the model to mimic
this behavior is known as
chain of thought prompting.
It works by including
a series of
intermediate
reasoning steps into
any examples that you use for
one or few-shot inference.
By structuring the
examples in this way,
you're essentially
teaching the model how to
reason through the task
to reach a solution.
Here's the same apples problem
you saw a couple of slides ago,
now reworked as a chain
of thought prompt.
The story of Roger
buying the tennis balls
is still used as the
one-shot example.
But this time you include
intermediate reasoning
steps in the solution text.
These steps are basically
equivalent to the ones
a human might take,
that you saw just
a few minutes ago.
You then send this
chain of thought
prompt to the large
language model,
which generates a completion.
Notice that the model
has now produced
a more robust and
transparent response
that explains its
reasoning steps,
following a similar structure
as the one-shot example.
The model now correctly
determines that nine
apples are left.
Thinking through the
problem has helped
the model come to
the correct answer.
One thing to note is that
while the input prompt is
shown here in a condensed
format to save space,
the entire prompt is actually
included in the output.
You can use chain of thought
prompting to help LLMs
improve their reasoning of
other types of problems too,
in addition to arithmetic.
Here's an example of a
simple physics problem,
where the model is being
asked to determine if
a gold ring would sink to the
bottom of a swimming pool.
The chain of thought
prompt included
as the one-shot example here,
shows the model how to
work through this problem,
by reasoning that
a pair would flow
because it's less
dense than water.
When you pass this
prompt to the LLM,
it generates a similarly
structured completion.
The model correctly identifies
the density of gold,
which it learned from
its training data,
and then reasons
that the ring would
sink because gold is much
more dense than water.
Chain of thought prompting
is a powerful technique that
improves the ability of
your model to reason
through problems.
While this can greatly improve
the performance of your model,
the limited math skills
of LLMs can still cause
problems if your task requires
accurate calculations,
like totaling sales on
an e-commerce site,
calculating tax, or
applying a discount.
In the next video,
you'll explore
a technique that can help
you overcome this problem,
by letting your LLM talk to
a program that is
much better at math.
Let's move on and take a look.